---
layout: post
title: "Ruby RVM - Ruby Version Manager"
tags: ruby rvm
categories: development rails
---

# Why?
Ruby, unlike java applications that I have worked on, different applications use different versions of ruby and it is essential to have the same ruby version during development.

As you are trying to work on different projects, maintaining different versions becomes tedious. Multiple versions of gems in different directories are also difficult to maintain. A dedicated version manager like [**rvm**][rvm-link] would make life easier. [**rbenv**] [rbenv-link] is an alternative which ideally does the same job.

# How?

The steps are relatively simple. Just run the two commands below. If you need additional options during install refer the [official documentation][rvm-link]

### Pre-requisites

```
    $ gpg2 --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 409B6B1796C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3 7D2BAF1CF37B13E2069D6956105BD0E739499BDB
```

### Installation
```
    $ \curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
```

### Common Issues during Installation
#### 1. Missing dependencies
You may get error with `command not found` and module errors. Install the dependencies as needed and depends on your environment. 
#### 2. Network Configurations
During installation packages will downloaded from the internet. Make sure you are connected to the internet and your ISP is not playing wack a mole on the package servers. githubusercontent.com is a common server which is blocked by certain ISPs. The short term solution for this is to change the DNS of your connection or you can call your ISP and waste half your day.
#### 3. Environment Configuration
RVM uses the environment variables and files(.zshrc, .bashrc) to function properly. RVM adds them automatically but if you are using a different environment, you need to configure them manually. Other softwares and plugins can also interfere with the environment configuration like Oh My Zsh bundler plugins.

# What?

The cheatsheet!

| Command | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| `rvm list known` | Displays all the available ruby versions in remote |
| `rvm list` | Displays the installed ruby versions | 
| `rvm install 3.3.0` | Installs Ruby version 3.3.0 in the local system | 
| `rvm use 3.3.0` | Sets the path variables to use 3.3.0 for the current session  | 
| `rvm --default 3.3.0` | Sets the path variables to use 3.3.0 as default unless there is a .ruby_version file in the current directory |
| `rvm system` | Sets the path variables to use the system ruby |
| `rvm help` | Who am I kidding? You are going to use this anyway |




[rvm-link]: https://rvm.io/
[rbenv-link]: https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv